hey everybody its Mike the reptile guy
here we're doing a quick video to talk
to you guys about why we're trying to
raise some money to get our rescued
animals into a new facility now this is
/ is green iguana came in to us about a
year and a half ago and he is in need of
a new enclosure he is growing larger
unfortunately we're home based right now
so we don't have a whole lot of room we
also have a lot of animals that are
living outside right now if it's nice
it's hot it's 30 degrees outside but in
a couple months the temperatures are
going to draw up and they're not going
to be able to be outside anymore so
we're desperately trying to seek to find
some money to get a new facility so we
can get the animals into larger indoor
enclosures so I don't have to worry
about the temperature changes in that
and that's where you guys come in
because we're trying to raise some money
through various websites to get a new
facility going now this facility will be
in the lower mainland in British
Columbia it will be open to the public
and it's going to be kind of like an
indoor zoo and education facility so
people will be able to come in we'll
learn about these animals will be doing
outreach programs teaching people about
the proper care of these animals why
they should and should not get some of
these animals and we're also going to
have not quite a medical facility but we
do a lot of work with medical issues
with animals we get phone calls all the
time I've roughed out our problems and
we try to help people you know work
through what's going on with their
animals and make their animals healthier
and just give them better lives so we're
going to go into the backyard I'm going
to show you some of the animals that are
really needing a new enclosure soon
before the temperatures cool down so
we're in the backyard now with dozer
these are self-guided tortoise now so
dozer is a tortoise that came in he
actually had holes drilled in his shell
and a handle installed onto the shelf
okay not as very great time for dos if
he's got a great home now unfortunately
dozer cannot stay outside much longer
right now like I said we've got a 33
degree temperatures nice and hot give it
another month or so it's gonna start
cooling down he's got to go inside now
we are home based right now there's not
a whole lot of room in the house so we
need a bigger facility so we can make
sure dozer get back here has a big
proper enclosure we can stay happy year
round all right now anybody that knows
anything about tortoises knows that the
self-guided tours can get over 100
pounds so he needs a big area to walk
around he's always walking around eating
you need some danie lines right now yeah
so dozer is one of the animals that we
really need a new facility for because
like I said he's just
growing and growing and eating and the
problem is hard to find a home or a cell
kind of tourists because they do live so
long and get so large so those are going
to be staying with us helping teach
people about reptiles and other exotic
animals as pets but he needs a new home
very soon and now we're going to move
over to our pond with some turtles so
now we're in front of our over top of
our new little pond here we built for a
lot of our rescued animals one of the
number one animals we can turn into the
rescue are these guys here red-eared
sliders this particular slider came in
about a week and a half ago after being
found on a road just a few blocks from
the house actually and these are
actually an invasive species in British
Columbia's of the red-eared slider so we
get a lot of these turtles in there the
ones people by as little pets and they
get too big and too dirty and people
don't want them anymore another one we
have here oh here comes tell her to say
hi this is one of our dogs that lives in
the backyard and kind of protects the
turtles and tortoises over here we got
rat trap rapture I believe that for a
few years now years now she's a common
snapping turtle she came in she was
living in so many salas in a little tiny
kind of a bucket container just a really
bad condition score so now she gets to
live in the pond outside with these guys
but again pretty soon it's going to get
too cold out here now these kind of
turtles can live year-round but our pond
is not deep enough to do that so these
turtles have to go inside at some point
in time and again we're going to need to
play water area now the reason we keep
the animals we do a dog some out but we
also keep a lot of the animals because
of the education program we have our
education program involves going out to
schools and daycares and mall expose any
type of presentation a public event you
can think of where we go and use these
animals to teach people about these
animals okay so we're trying to you know
help get rid of some of the
misconceptions and fair some of the
myths there are about reptiles and then
being all dangerous and killers we also
teach boat which ones again make proper
pets which ones make bad pets and just
how to properly how wouldn't care for
these animals because there are so many
people out there they get these and
don't realize what they're getting into
and how much of a responsibility it is
to actually own an exotic animal so it's
why it's very important we need to keep
this rescue program going the education
program going because the animals need a
place to live and people need a place
they can go and learn about these
animals all right over eye drops about
to go into the water you stay up here
you stay up here for a few minutes
friendliest nav material you'll ever see
yes inter rescue right now we've got
about 50 different kinds of reptiles
amphibians are arachnids we've even got
a couple of chinchillas right now
because we don't want to turn away any
exotic animals but we really need some
financial help to get this going to get
it into a you know a bigger facility
where we don't have to worry about ever
becoming full and have it in turn
animals down this facility will also
help us raise money because we'll be
charging admissions for people to come
and look at the animals and that will
just increase our our income to keep the
rescue going into you know help things
grow in all medical costs and everything
so if you can please make a contribution
help us get our rescue facility going
before winter comes and sets in the poor
gets to Colton they have to take these
animals inside cuz it'd be great to have
a nice place going by Christmas would be
a great Christmas present for us and the
animals so thank you very much guys